# ML_CO2emissions_predictions

This dataset presents the atmospheric carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions generated by some car models. Specifically, it correlates some parameters such as: vehicle model, manufacturer, engine size, type of fuel used, fuel consumption on the road, fuel consumption in the city, among others, with the recorded CO2 emission.

It is known that CO2 is directly related to the greenhouse effect, which increases the average temperature on Earth. In addition, more recent research shows that CO2 has another direct and harmful impact on nature: it lowers the pH of the oceans, making water more acidic. In view of all these harmful effects on the environment, the control and reduction of CO2 emissions from cars becomes a matter of relevance and of paramount importance.

That said, this project aims to discover the parameters most relevant to the CO2 emission of cars and, from that, generate a model that predicts the amount of pollution from other vehicles. Thus, scientists can base themselves on this model for the future production of more sustainable cars and customers would have this information of an environmental nature, to make more conscious decisions at the time of purchase.

The dataset is available in Kaggle: https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/gangliu/oc2emission

The parameters with the highest correlation with the study class - CO2 emission - ( >= 0.88) were: engine size, cylinders, fuel_consuption_city, fuel_consuption_hwy, fuel_consuption_comb and fuel_consuption_comb_mpg. As these parameters present a non-linear fit with CO2 emission, a polynomial regression equation model was used.

The maximum and minimum CO2 emissions verified in the entire data set ranged from 108 to 488. The R-squared obtained by the model was 91.84 %. That is, almost 92 % of the data variability can be explained by the generated model. The mean absolute error was 10.87, a not very significant value considering the emissions under study.

As a suggestion for future work, produce the model on a website or application, where customers could test the CO2 emission of car options on the market and scientists would have this information available and already organized.
